#Agent-Based Modeling: Analysis and Simulation with Python
Agent-based modeling has applications in game theory, biology, business, economics, and social sciences. The goal of these models is to gain insight into the behavior of a population of agents following rules of a game or a system. Agents act in their own best self-interest playing the strategies that improve their status in the system. The prisoner’s dilemma is an example of a game where agents acting in their own self-interest turn out to have sub-optimal results. There are three main strategies in the prisoner’s dilemma, always cooperating, always defecting, and cooperating when your opponent does. Cooperating leads to the best possible outcome for both agents, but it is rarely the choice made in the dilemma. Studying the iterated version of the prisoner’s dilemma provides insight into what strategies will survive and which ones will die out as a result of natural selection. Agent-based modeling software was readily available as its applications spread to multiple disciplines in the late 1900s and early 2000s. Most of this software is now outdated which leaves the question of what new techniques can be used for agent-based modeling. We have developed Python code to study the iterated prisoner’s dilemma that will allow for a deeper understanding into the behavior of the agents and their strategies. Our code also is a new development to agent-based modeling software for a more updated version of a toolkit necessary to study these complex systems.
